[Music]
Hey everyone, Charlie Morgan here and in
this video I want to walk you through
the seven things that you need to have
to build an outbound system. Now I've
built I don't know probably 30 40
different successful outbound systems to
get clients specifically through cold
email, cold DM, cold calling, even like
cold mailing like physical mailing and
if you want to build your own and start
from scratch and actually create an
outbound system that delivers
appointments and actually works there's
seven things that you need. So when we
take an outbound system, you kind of
want to see the words outbound system as
like a in the same way that you like a
car and you know how like a car is made
up of different parts that make the car.
So you've got the wheels, you've got the
chassis, you've got the alloys, you've
got the engine, you've got the
windscreen, you got the windows and all
of those things aggregated together
becomes the car. A car is basically just
a collection of parts. And so if we want
to build an outbound system, we look at
it in the same way that we want to build
a car. So if you're building a car, it's
like what do I need? I need wheels. I
need this. I need this. And then the
collection of all those things together
determines the car. The interesting
thing about that is that the collection
of all those little things determines
the quality of the car. And you've got
lots of different layers here. So one
component to a car is an engine. And
inside of that engine, you need lots of
little components to make the engine
good. Same thing is true with outbound
systems. We're not going to get into
massive depth and complication here, but
there's seven things. The first thing is
you need youruler. Okay, so your
scheduling software. And this is pretty
straightforward. This is kind of obvious
because what a lot of people try and do
with their um outbound systems is
they'll try and book appointments
manually. So, they'll email someone,
that person will get back and say like,
you know, oh, let's house tomorrow at 3
p.m. and then the person will go and
they'll put it in their calendar and
invite them and then ask them some
questions and it's a nightmare. What you
want to do is you want to use a
scheduling software. Super simple.
Cow.com, Calendarly. Um, calendarly is
honestly going to suffice. Pretty
straightforward. you want to configure
that so you've got reminders on email
and text as well as um qualifying
questions as well if you want a few of
those. But that's the easy part.
Everyone knows that. The second part is
the platform. So once you've got
youruler unlock, you want to organize
what platform you're going to use. So
the platform is basically the um the
place that you go to do the outreach. So
is it um are you doing cold calling,
cold emailing, or cold DMing? And cold
call and cold emailing are pretty
straightforward because the platforms
you're going to use for those are well
the phone carrier service you have or
alternatively Gmail or Microsoft
Outlook, right? But when it comes to
cold DMing, you're looking at LinkedIn,
you're looking at Facebook, you're
looking at Instagram. And basically um
you get to determine like which platform
you're using. And the reason this is
important is because what a lot of
people will try and do with outreach is
they'll just try they'll try everything.
They'll be like, "Oh, I'm just going to
make cold calls today and then like, oh,
tomorrow I'm going to send some cold DMs
on LinkedIn and then I'm also going to
try a bit of cold." You need to just
pick one platform and get really,
really, really good at it because you'll
find that there is one platform that you
that is most suited to your niche. And
if you're wondering how to pick the
platform, it's based on accessibility of
leads and availability of the niche.
Okay? So, availability is basically is
this a platform where everyone goes in
your niche. For example, when I used to
work with gym owners, I could call them
because gym owners were always in the
gym. They never had a gatekeeper and
their phone numbers were always
available on their websites. And so the
platform that I used to get my clients
was the phone. Um, if you were working
with online fitness coaches, the best
platform to probably use is Instagram.
Why? Because they all have an Instagram
and they're all active there, right? So
you see my point, you pick the platform
based on a niche. The third thing is the
stimuli. So your stimuli, think of this
like the things that you expose people
to to in order to encourage them to book
an appointment. So I'm talking scripts,
I'm talking templates. So, for example,
if you were using a cold calling system,
your stimuli would be the script you
use, the sequence of words that you
utter to encourage someone to book an
appointment, right? If you're doing cold
emails, then you know, a stimuli might
be a Loom video or it could be um
obviously part of it is going to be the
subject line and the footer and the
follow-up messages you use. And if
you're using gifts or whatever, so you
need stimuli and the better your
stimuli, the better your results will
be. And if you're wondering how to
create good stimuli, you just do it
based entirely off the psychology of the
niche. What words is going to are going
to trigger them? What pain points do
they have? What fears do they have? What
desires they have? Understanding all of
those things. You don't write copy for
the sake of writing writing copy. You
understand your niche and then you write
your copy or your script or your other
stimuli around your niche. Everything
needs to be about would this suit my
niche. The fourth thing is a CRM sheet.
So, what a lot of people will try and do
when they build outbound systems is they
get really complicated with the CRM they
use. So, they'll be like, "Oh, I need a
HubSpot thing or I need Salesforce or I
need close.com." Whatever. You don't.
You just need a very very
straightforward spreadsheet. And all of
my spreadsheets for um my outbound CRM
have literally just been one sheet with
like columns at the top. So like name
and then obviously the contact
information that you're using or the
social platform that you're using um to
you know give someone like a link that
link to their social profile and then
literally just like when did you reach
out to them? Have you followed up with
them? Have they booked any notes? And
you just need a really, really simple
Google spreadsheet that you can honestly
build in probably about 10 minutes. And
then that way you can just keep a log of
all your leads. What a lot of people
will do is they won't have this. They
won't have a CRM. They'll just blindly
reach out to people and be like, "Oh,
I'm I I did I call this guy or did I DM
did this guy reply to me? I don't know."
You want to have a nice clean
spreadsheet bookmarked. You keep it up
to date every single day with all the
information you can possibly need to
contact your niche and keep updated
notes on their responses and also
whether they're booking or not. Um the
fifth thing is your lead source. So what
you then need to do is understand
something very important is that the
quality of a system is determined almost
entirely by the quality of the inputs
that go into that system. Now yes, we
want to have the right stimuli. We want
to have the right sheets. We want to
have the right platform. Those things
are important to get right. But it
doesn't matter how good you are at
writing copy. It doesn't matter how good
you are at picking the right platform or
having the best scheduling platforms or
software thing. What matters and what's
crucial is how good the leads are. And
so what you want to do is you want to
find a lead source, okay? And and you
want to find an endless lead source. So
like imagine you're on a desert island
and you're looking for water. There's
going to be different qualities of water
sources, right? You know, you're going
to be able to pick it up from like a
bottle on the beach that's been in there
for god knows how long. There might be
like a dirty like like puddle of water
or something. Maybe you can get it from
coconuts. But if you travel into the
island, maybe you'll find a spring, a
never-ending flow of clean water that
comes up from the rocks beneath. That's
what you're looking for when it comes to
lead sourcing. You're looking for a
spring, an endless supply of qualified
leads, something that can keep you alive
basically. And these exist and they're
it's possible to find them and basically
you just have to look. So this could be
LinkedIn Sales Navigator. It could be a
specific lead sourcing software. It
could be using um yel.com or yelp.com.
It could be using Google, you know, just
find my business. You need to be able to
find your leads. And if you're wondering
like, "Oh, but I can't find them." Well,
then that's that's that's never true
because they almost always are available
and you need to have a lead source
that's consistent and good. You can also
use lead sources from Fiverr, um, Upwork
or any other sort of virtual assistant
platform as well. You can get
professional lead sources to source your
leads for you. Um, and there are 101
ways to source leads these days. So, you
shouldn't struggle with that. But that's
number five and you need it. Number six
is you need a metric tracker. So, what
you then want to do is you want to build
a second spreadsheet second to your CRM
sheet. And on that spreadsheet, you want
to basically put in all of the stages of
conversion that you're walking people
through. And you want to track your data
every single day. So let's say that
you're doing a cold email system, right?
You want to track every single day, how
many emails have you sent, how many
people have replied, how many calls have
you booked, how many sales have you
closed. And what you're then going to do
is with those four stages of conversion
is calculate the conversion rates
between each stage. And that allows you
to deter to to determine and understand
like how effective are the variables and
stimuli that you've put into place at
each of these stages. So let's say for
example that you get loads of replies.
So your let's say that your positive
reply rate from email sent to um reply
received is really high but for some
reason you get no bookings, right? Well
then now you can immediately see what
the problem is. And when it comes to
diagnosing systems, troubleshooting
systems and improving them and fixing
them, it's all about knowing where to
look. So, let's say that you've got an
incredible positive reply rate, but you
just you just don't get any
appointments. So, you've got hundreds of
people telling you they love your thing
and they want to book with you, but they
just don't they just don't book. Well,
maybe you need to look at the variables
then that determine positive reply rate
to booking rate um which is this
conversion stage. So, you'd look at your
scheduleuler like, have I got enough
availability in there? You'd look at
your um the way you're dealing with
replies, how much you following up with
people, how's your deliverability to
warm prospects, right? you can start
diagnosing problems and fixing systems
gets very easy when you know where to
look and you're only going to know where
to look because of the metrics. And then
the seventh thing, the last thing is
your delivery mechanism. Okay, so this
is pretty self-explanatory because if
you're making cold calls, the delivery
mechanism you're using is your phone. If
you're sending cold emails, the delivery
mechanism you're using might be a Gmail
account. If you're doing social
platforms, then the delivery mechanism
that you might use is going to be like
LinkedIn Messenger or Instagram, you
know, DMs or something. But when it
comes to all these things, there are
softwares that you can use and platforms
that you can use and automation tools
you can use to successfully deliver your
outreach and you know launch your
stimuli to the market without you having
to do as much manual work. So you know
you've got things like instantly um
you've you've got coldms.com you got all
sorts of different softwares that you
can look into to find. But for the sake
of this video being a high-level
overview of specifically the seven
components you need to build a
successful outbound system from a very
beginner perspective, that's all you
need. If you've got a scheduleuler, a
platform, a stimuli, a CRM sheet, a lead
source, a metric tracker, and a delivery
mechanism, then you have everything you
need to actually get appointments with
outbound. That doesn't mean it's going
to work because obviously the quality of
the variables determines the outcome. In
the same way that if you're building a
car, if you have really crap wheels and
the rubber keeps deflating, then the car
is not going to move, right? So, very
important you get all this right, but I
wanted to just highlight the things you
actually need so you actually know where
to look when it comes to building this
to avoid any confusion. So, if you need
help getting more clients and you want
to build this, but not yourself as in
like you want all these like all of
these um components if you like
pre-built for you, then I actually have
a entire system dedicated to doing that
specifically for B2B consultants, agency
owners, etc., etc., who sell high
ticket. There's a link in the
description you can click. It's a full
video of me breaking down how these
systems work and how we can help you get
clients with them. You can check it out
if you want. I don't care if you do or
not. But that's everything and I hope
you have a good day. Take care.